Posh-ACME/Plugins/README.md, before:

# Writing a Validation Plugin for Posh-ACME

A validation plugin for Posh-ACME is a standard PowerShell PS1 script file located in the module's `Plugins` folder. Its file name is what users will use to reference it when specifying a plugin, so it should be related to the provider it is publishing against. 

All plugins must contain a function called `Get-CurrentPluginType` which returns a string indicating the type of ACME challenge they support. Posh-ACME currently supports the `dns-01` and `http-01` challenge types.

DNS plugins must contain the following additional functions:

- `Add-DnsTxt`
- `Remove-DnsTxt`
- `Save-DnsTxt`

HTTP plugins must contain the following additional functions:

- `Add-HttpChallenge`
- `Remove-HttpChallenge`
- `Save-HttpChallenge`

The easiest way to get started is to make a copy of `_Example-DNS.ps1` or `_Example-HTTP.ps1` depending on the type of plugin you are making and rename it for your purposes.

**Pull Requests for new plugins are quite welcome.**


## Function Details

### `Add-DnsTxt` and `Remove-DnsTxt`

These are responsible for adding/removing TXT records to/from a DNS server/provider. There are two mandatory and positional string parameters, `$RecordName` and `$TxtValue`. RecordName is the fully qualified domain name (FQDN) of the record we will be adding a TXT value for. TxtValue is the actual value that will be set in the TXT record. Do not modify or remove these first
two parameters.

Additional parameters should be added as necessary for the specific DNS provider such as credentials or API keys. In addition to standard PowerShell naming standards, their names must also not conflict with any other plugin's parameters. A good way to do that is to use a unique prefix on all of the parameters. It doesn't have to match the plugin name exactly as long as it's unique and reasonably related to the plugin. Common parameters that can be shared between this plugin's functions should be named the same as each other.

The last parameter should always be `$ExtraParams` with the `ValueFromRemainingArguments` parameter attribute. This allows callers to [splat](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_splatting?view=powershell-5.1) the combined collection of plugin parameters to each plugin without errors for parameters that
don't exist.

Many DNS providers will only need the Add and Remove functions. In those cases, remember to remove all but the `$ExtraParams` parameter in the Save function and just leave the function body empty. For other providers, it is may be more efficient to stage changes in bulk and then perform what is effectively a Save or Commit operation on those changes. In those cases, implement the Save function as described below.

### `Add-HttpChallenge` and `Remove-HttpChallenge`

These are responsible for publishing/unpublishing the ACME challenge body text at a specific HTTP URL. There are two mandatory and positional string parameters, `$Url` and `$Body`. Url is the address the ACME validation servers will query to validate the challenge. Body is the text value they expect to get in response to that query. Do not modify or remove these first two parameters.

Additional parameters should be added as necessary for the specific HTTP provider such as filesystem paths, credentials, or API keys. In addition to standard PowerShell naming standards, their names must also not conflict with any other plugin's parameters. A good way to do that is to use a unique prefix on all of the parameters. It doesn't have to match the plugin name exactly as long as it's unique and reasonably related to the plugin. Common parameters that can be shared between this plugin's functions should be named the same as each other.

The last parameter should always be `$ExtraParams` with the `ValueFromRemainingArguments` parameter attribute. This allows callers to [splat](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_splatting?view=powershell-5.1) the combined collection of plugin parameters to each plugin without errors for parameters that
don't exist.

Many HTTP providers will only need the Add and Remove functions. In those cases, remember to remove all but the `$ExtraParams` parameter in the Save function and just leave the function body empty. For other providers, it is may be more efficient to stage changes in bulk and then perform what is effectively a Save or Commit operation on those changes. In those cases, implement the Save function as described below.

### `Save-DnsTxt` and `Save-HttpChallenge`

These functions are optional for DNS/HTTP plugins where it is more efficient to stage changes in bulk before Saving or Committing the changes. There are no required parameters except `$ExtraParams` which should always be last and have the `ValueFromRemainingArguments` parameter attribute.


## Plugin Readme

In addition to the native function help, it can be very helpful to new users to have a plugin specific readme. It should be a Markdown formatted file also in the Plugins folder called `<PluginName>-Readme.md`. For people who may be setting up automation against their provider for the first time, it can be helpful to add guidance on creating service accounts, limited access roles, or any prerequisite setup that the plugin requires to work properly. It should also have a section with an example on how to use the plugin with `New-PACertificate`.


## General Development Tips and Tricks

### No Write-Host

Unless your plugin requires interactive user input which should be rare, do not use `Write-Host` to display informational messages or debug output. Use `Write-Verbose` for messages you would want a potential user to see. Use `Write-Debug` for things only the plugin developer would likely care about or a user trying to troubleshoot a plugin that is not working.

When testing your module, use `-Verbose` to see your verbose messages. And run `$DebugPreference = 'Continue'` to make the debug messages show up without prompting for confirmation *(which happens if you use `-Debug`)*.

### No Pipeline Output

Do not output any objects to the pipeline from your plugin. This will interfere with scripts and workflows that use the normal output of public functions. You can use `Out-Null` on internal calls that would normally output to the pipeline when you don't care about that data.

### Testing Plugins

You don't need to actually request a certificate in order to test a plugin. All you need is a valid ACME account via `New-PAAccount`.

Plugins can be tested using `Publish-Challenge`, `Unpublish-Challenge`, and `Save-Challenge`. They call the Add, Remove, and Save functions respectively. Here are some examples of how I generally call them while testing.

```powershell
$DebugPreference = 'Continue'
$pArgs = @{MyParam1='asdf';MyParam2='qwer'}

# multiple calls to publish/unpublish are generally more useful for DNS plugins
Publish-Challenge example.com (Get-PAAccount) test1 MyPlugin $pArgs -Verbose
Publish-Challenge example.com (Get-PAAccount) test2 MyPlugin $pArgs -Verbose
Publish-Challenge example.com (Get-PAAccount) test3 MyPlugin $pArgs -Verbose

# save is only necessary if your plugin implements it
Save-Challenge MyPlugin $pArgs -Verbose

Unpublish-Challenge example.com (Get-PAAccount) test1 MyPlugin $pArgs -Verbose
Unpublish-Challenge example.com (Get-PAAccount) test2 MyPlugin $pArgs -Verbose
Unpublish-Challenge example.com (Get-PAAccount) test3 MyPlugin $pArgs -Verbose

# save is only necessary if your plugin implements it
Save-Challenge MyPlugin $pArgs -Verbose
```

You can also [dot source](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_scripts?view=powershell-5.1#script-scope-and-dot-sourcing) the plugin file and call the functions directly. But this can be troublesome if the functions depend on module-scoped variables like `$script:UseBasic`. Also, remember to dot source again each time you make a change to the plugin.

### -UseBasicParsing

Any time you call `Invoke-WebRequest` or `Invoke-RestMethod`, you should always add `@script:UseBasic` to the end.

By default in PowerShell 5.1, those two functions use Internet Explorer's DOM parser to process the response body which can cause errors in cases where IE is not installed or hasn't gone through its first-run sequence yet. Both functions have a `-UseBasicParsing` parameter that switches the parser to a PowerShell native parser and is the new default functionality in PowerShell Core 6+. The parameter is also deprecated because they don't plan on bringing back IE DOM parsing in future PowerShell versions. So the module creates a variable when it's first loaded that checks whether `-UseBasicParsing` is still available or not and adds it to the `$script:UseBasic` hashtable. That way, you can just splat it on all your calls to those two functions which will future proof your plugin.

## DNS Specific Tips and Tricks

### Multiple TXT Values Per Record

It is both supported and expected that a given TXT record may have multiple values. It's most common with wildcard certificates that contain both the wildcard name (`*.example.com`) and the root domain (`example.com`). Both names require TXT records be added for the same FQDN (`_acme-challenge.example.com`). This can also happen if the user is using CNAME challenge aliases.

The Add/Remove functions need to support all potential states of the particular TXT record. But how the record is represented by a given provider seems to vary. Some represent it as a single record with multiple values that you need to add to or remove from. Others have distinct records for each value that can be created/deleted individually. So make sure you can both create a new record that doesn't exist *and* add a value to a record that already does.

### Remove Only Specific TxtValue

Related to having multiple TXT values per record, the remove function must not blindly delete any record that matches `$RecordName`. It should be able to remove only the `$TxtValue` on a record that may have multiple values. But if the record only contains a single value, the record should be deleted entirely.

### Zone Matching

A particular DNS provider may be hosting both domain apex zones (`example.com`) and sub-zones (`sub1.example.com`). One of the first things a plugin usually has to do is figure out which zone `$RecordName` needs to be added to. This should be the deepest sub-zone that would still contain `$RecordName`. Here are some examples assuming only the two previously mentioned zones exist.

`$RecordName` | Matching Zone
--- | ---
_acme-challenge.example.com | example.com
_acme-challenge.site1.example.com | example.com
_acme-challenge.sub1.example.com | sub1.example.com
_acme-challenge.site1.sub1.example.com | sub1.example.com
_acme-challenge.site1.sub3.sub2.sub1.example.com | sub1.example.com

Many of the existing plugins have a helper function to handle this. Copy and modify their code where it makes sense but make sure helper function names are unique.

### Trailing Dots

Be aware how your particular DNS provider represents zone and record names. Some include the trailing dot (`example.com.`). Others don't. This can affect string matching when finding zones and existing records.


## HTTP Specific Tips and Tricks

*TODO*

## Migrating DNS Plugins from 3.x to 4.x

In case you have been using your own private DNS plugin in 3.x, here's how to migrate it to the 4.x format.

* Add `function Get-CurrentPluginType { 'dns-01' }` to the top of the file.
* Replace instances of `Add-DnsTxt<Name>` with `Add-DnsTxt`
* Replace instances of `Remove-DnsTxt<Name>` with `Remove-DnsTxt`
* Replace instances of `Save-DnsTxt<Name>` with `Save-DnsTxt`

Commit message:

changed http plugins to use Domain,Token,Body params. Added first attempt at WebRoot plugin and a stub for WebSelfHost

Posh-ACME/Plugins/README.md, after:

# Writing a Validation Plugin for Posh-ACME

A validation plugin for Posh-ACME is a standard PowerShell PS1 script file located in the module's `Plugins` folder. Its file name is what users will use to reference it when specifying a plugin, so it should be related to the provider it is publishing against. 

All plugins must contain a function called `Get-CurrentPluginType` which returns a string indicating the type of ACME challenge they support. Posh-ACME currently supports the `dns-01` and `http-01` challenge types.

DNS plugins must contain the following additional functions:

- `Add-DnsTxt`
- `Remove-DnsTxt`
- `Save-DnsTxt`

HTTP plugins must contain the following additional functions:

- `Add-HttpChallenge`
- `Remove-HttpChallenge`
- `Save-HttpChallenge`

The easiest way to get started is to make a copy of `_Example-DNS.ps1` or `_Example-HTTP.ps1` depending on the type of plugin you are making and rename it for your purposes.

**Pull Requests for new plugins are quite welcome.**


## Function Details

### `Add-DnsTxt` and `Remove-DnsTxt`

These are responsible for adding/removing TXT records to/from a DNS server/provider. There are two mandatory and positional string parameters, `$RecordName` and `$TxtValue`. RecordName is the fully qualified domain name (FQDN) of the record we will be adding a TXT value for. TxtValue is the actual value that will be set in the TXT record. Do not modify or remove these first
two parameters.

Additional parameters should be added as necessary for the specific DNS provider such as credentials or API keys. In addition to standard PowerShell naming standards, their names must also not conflict with any other plugin's parameters. A good way to do that is to use a unique prefix on all of the parameters. It doesn't have to match the plugin name exactly as long as it's unique and reasonably related to the plugin. Common parameters that can be shared between this plugin's functions should be named the same as each other.

The last parameter should always be `$ExtraParams` with the `ValueFromRemainingArguments` parameter attribute. This allows callers to [splat](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_splatting?view=powershell-5.1) the combined collection of plugin parameters to each plugin without errors for parameters that
don't exist.

Many DNS providers will only need the Add and Remove functions. In those cases, remember to remove all but the `$ExtraParams` parameter in the Save function and just leave the function body empty. For other providers, it is may be more efficient to stage changes in bulk and then perform what is effectively a Save or Commit operation on those changes. In those cases, implement the Save function as described below.

### `Add-HttpChallenge` and `Remove-HttpChallenge`

These are responsible for publishing/unpublishing the ACME challenge body text at a specific HTTP URL. There are three mandatory and positional string parameters, `$Domain`, `$Token`, and `$Body`. Domain and Token are what the validation server will use to build the URL it will check against (`http://<Domain>/.well-known/acme-challenge/<Token>`). Body is the text value it expects to get in response to that query. Do not modify or remove these first three parameters.

Additional parameters should be added as necessary for the specific HTTP provider such as filesystem paths, credentials, or API keys. In addition to standard PowerShell naming standards, their names must also not conflict with any other plugin's parameters. A good way to do that is to use a unique prefix on all of the parameters. It doesn't have to match the plugin name exactly as long as it's unique and reasonably related to the plugin. Common parameters that can be shared between this plugin's functions should be named the same as each other.

The last parameter should always be `$ExtraParams` with the `ValueFromRemainingArguments` parameter attribute. This allows callers to [splat](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_splatting?view=powershell-5.1) the combined collection of plugin parameters to each plugin without errors for parameters that
don't exist.

Many HTTP providers will only need the Add and Remove functions. In those cases, remember to remove all but the `$ExtraParams` parameter in the Save function and just leave the function body empty. For other providers, it is may be more efficient to stage changes in bulk and then perform what is effectively a Save or Commit operation on those changes. In those cases, implement the Save function as described below.

### `Save-DnsTxt` and `Save-HttpChallenge`

These functions are optional for DNS/HTTP plugins where it is more efficient to stage changes in bulk before Saving or Committing the changes. There are no required parameters except `$ExtraParams` which should always be last and have the `ValueFromRemainingArguments` parameter attribute.


## Plugin Readme

In addition to the native function help, it can be very helpful to new users to have a plugin specific readme. It should be a Markdown formatted file also in the Plugins folder called `<PluginName>-Readme.md`. For people who may be setting up automation against their provider for the first time, it can be helpful to add guidance on creating service accounts, limited access roles, or any prerequisite setup that the plugin requires to work properly. It should also have a section with an example on how to use the plugin with `New-PACertificate`.


## General Development Tips and Tricks

### No Write-Host

Unless your plugin requires interactive user input which should be rare, do not use `Write-Host` to display informational messages or debug output. Use `Write-Verbose` for messages you would want a potential user to see. Use `Write-Debug` for things only the plugin developer would likely care about or a user trying to troubleshoot a plugin that is not working.

When testing your module, use `-Verbose` to see your verbose messages. And run `$DebugPreference = 'Continue'` to make the debug messages show up without prompting for confirmation *(which happens if you use `-Debug`)*.

### No Pipeline Output

Do not output any objects to the pipeline from your plugin. This will interfere with scripts and workflows that use the normal output of public functions. You can use `Out-Null` on internal calls that would normally output to the pipeline when you don't care about that data.

### Testing Plugins

You don't need to actually request a certificate in order to test a plugin. All you need is a valid ACME account via `New-PAAccount`.

Plugins can be tested using `Publish-Challenge`, `Unpublish-Challenge`, and `Save-Challenge`. They call the Add, Remove, and Save functions respectively. Here are some examples of how I generally call them while testing.

```powershell
$DebugPreference = 'Continue'
$pArgs = @{MyParam1='asdf';MyParam2='qwer'}

# multiple calls to publish/unpublish are generally more useful for DNS plugins
Publish-Challenge example.com (Get-PAAccount) test1 MyPlugin $pArgs -Verbose
Publish-Challenge example.com (Get-PAAccount) test2 MyPlugin $pArgs -Verbose
Publish-Challenge example.com (Get-PAAccount) test3 MyPlugin $pArgs -Verbose

# save is only necessary if your plugin implements it
Save-Challenge MyPlugin $pArgs -Verbose

Unpublish-Challenge example.com (Get-PAAccount) test1 MyPlugin $pArgs -Verbose
Unpublish-Challenge example.com (Get-PAAccount) test2 MyPlugin $pArgs -Verbose
Unpublish-Challenge example.com (Get-PAAccount) test3 MyPlugin $pArgs -Verbose

# save is only necessary if your plugin implements it
Save-Challenge MyPlugin $pArgs -Verbose
```

You can also [dot source](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_scripts?view=powershell-5.1#script-scope-and-dot-sourcing) the plugin file and call the functions directly. But this can be troublesome if the functions depend on module-scoped variables like `$script:UseBasic`. Also, remember to dot source again each time you make a change to the plugin.

### -UseBasicParsing

Any time you call `Invoke-WebRequest` or `Invoke-RestMethod`, you should always add `@script:UseBasic` to the end.

By default in PowerShell 5.1, those two functions use Internet Explorer's DOM parser to process the response body which can cause errors in cases where IE is not installed or hasn't gone through its first-run sequence yet. Both functions have a `-UseBasicParsing` parameter that switches the parser to a PowerShell native parser and is the new default functionality in PowerShell Core 6+. The parameter is also deprecated because they don't plan on bringing back IE DOM parsing in future PowerShell versions. So the module creates a variable when it's first loaded that checks whether `-UseBasicParsing` is still available or not and adds it to the `$script:UseBasic` hashtable. That way, you can just splat it on all your calls to those two functions which will future proof your plugin.

## DNS Specific Tips and Tricks

### Multiple TXT Values Per Record

It is both supported and expected that a given TXT record may have multiple values. It's most common with wildcard certificates that contain both the wildcard name (`*.example.com`) and the root domain (`example.com`). Both names require TXT records be added for the same FQDN (`_acme-challenge.example.com`). This can also happen if the user is using CNAME challenge aliases.

The Add/Remove functions need to support all potential states of the particular TXT record. But how the record is represented by a given provider seems to vary. Some represent it as a single record with multiple values that you need to add to or remove from. Others have distinct records for each value that can be created/deleted individually. So make sure you can both create a new record that doesn't exist *and* add a value to a record that already does.

### Remove Only Specific TxtValue

Related to having multiple TXT values per record, the remove function must not blindly delete any record that matches `$RecordName`. It should be able to remove only the `$TxtValue` on a record that may have multiple values. But if the record only contains a single value, the record should be deleted entirely.

### Zone Matching

A particular DNS provider may be hosting both domain apex zones (`example.com`) and sub-zones (`sub1.example.com`). One of the first things a plugin usually has to do is figure out which zone `$RecordName` needs to be added to. This should be the deepest sub-zone that would still contain `$RecordName`. Here are some examples assuming only the two previously mentioned zones exist.

`$RecordName` | Matching Zone
--- | ---
_acme-challenge.example.com | example.com
_acme-challenge.site1.example.com | example.com
_acme-challenge.sub1.example.com | sub1.example.com
_acme-challenge.site1.sub1.example.com | sub1.example.com
_acme-challenge.site1.sub3.sub2.sub1.example.com | sub1.example.com

Many of the existing plugins have a helper function to handle this. Copy and modify their code where it makes sense but make sure helper function names are unique.

### Trailing Dots

Be aware how your particular DNS provider represents zone and record names. Some include the trailing dot (`example.com.`). Others don't. This can affect string matching when finding zones and existing records.


## HTTP Specific Tips and Tricks

*TODO*

## Migrating DNS Plugins from 3.x to 4.x

In case you have been using your own private DNS plugin in 3.x, here's how to migrate it to the 4.x format.

* Add `function Get-CurrentPluginType { 'dns-01' }` to the top of the file.
* Replace instances of `Add-DnsTxt<Name>` with `Add-DnsTxt`
* Replace instances of `Remove-DnsTxt<Name>` with `Remove-DnsTxt`
* Replace instances of `Save-DnsTxt<Name>` with `Save-DnsTxt`
